how_to_deploy.md, before:

# 🚀 How to Deploy Prefect Flows

## ✅ Prerequisites

- 🐍 Python 3.12 installed on Windows
- 📦 Prefect 3.6.1 installed: `pip install prefect==3.6.1`  
- 🐳 Docker containers running (prefect-server and prefect-worker)

## ⚡ Quick Start

### ❌ Remove Prefect's default git pull step (one-time per deployment)
- Open Prefect UI → Deployments → click your deployment → **Edit**.
- Under **Pull steps**, delete `prefect.deployments.steps.git_clone`.
- Add `prefect.deployments.steps.set_working_directory` and set `directory=/app`.
- Save. The worker already sees your code via Docker volume mounts, so no git needed.

### 1️⃣ Set Prefect API URL (once per terminal session)
put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
==============================================
export PREFECT_API_URL=http://localhost:4200/api
==============================================

### 2️⃣ Deploy a Flow

Basic deployment (manual trigger only):

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
=====================================================================================
python -m prefect deploy flows/chula_extraction/flow_chula_extract_data.py:extract_chula_data \
	--name person-extraction \
	--pool chula-pool \
	--params '{"table_name":"Person","output_filename":"Person.json","limit":1000}'
=====================================================================================

## 📤 Deployment Options

### 🕹 Manual Trigger (No Schedule)

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
==============================================
export PREFECT_API_URL=http://localhost:4200/api
==============================================

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
=====================================================================================
python -m prefect deploy flows/chula_extraction/flow_chula_extract_data.py:extract_chula_data \
	--name person-extraction \
	--pool chula-pool \
	--params '{"table_name":"Person","output_filename":"Person.json","limit":1000}'
=====================================================================================

### ⏰ With Cron Schedule

Every hour:

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
=====================================================================================
python -m prefect deploy flows/chula_extraction/flow_chula_extract_data.py:extract_chula_data \
	--name person-extraction \
	--pool chula-pool \
	--cron "0 * * * *" \
	--params '{"table_name":"Person","output_filename":"Person.json","limit":1000}'
=====================================================================================

Daily at midnight:

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
=====================================================================================
python -m prefect deploy flows/chula_extraction/flow_chula_extract_data.py:extract_chula_data \
	--name person-extraction \
	--pool chula-pool \
	--cron "0 0 * * *" \
	--params '{"table_name":"Person","output_filename":"Person.json","limit":1000}'
=====================================================================================

### 🔁 With Interval Schedule

Every 3600 seconds (1 hour):

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
=====================================================================================
python -m prefect deploy flows/chula_extraction/flow_chula_extract_data.py:extract_chula_data \
	--name person-extraction \
	--pool chula-pool \
	--interval 3600 \
	--params '{"table_name":"Person","output_filename":"Person.json","limit":1000}'
=====================================================================================

## 📚 Common Tables Deployment Examples

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
==============================================
export PREFECT_API_URL=http://localhost:4200/api
==============================================

👤 Person table:
=====================================================================================
python -m prefect deploy flows/chula_extraction/flow_chula_extract_data.py:extract_chula_data \
	--name person-extraction \
	--pool chula-pool \
	--params '{"table_name":"Person","output_filename":"Person.json","limit":1000}'
=====================================================================================

🏢 Dept table:
=====================================================================================
python -m prefect deploy flows/chula_extraction/flow_chula_extract_data.py:extract_chula_data \
	--name dept-extraction \
	--pool chula-pool \
	--params '{"table_name":"Dept","output_filename":"Dept.json","limit":1000}'
=====================================================================================

🧪 EQ table:
=====================================================================================
python -m prefect deploy flows/chula_extraction/flow_chula_extract_data.py:extract_chula_data \
	--name eq-extraction \
	--pool chula-pool \
	--params '{"table_name":"EQ","output_filename":"EQ.json","limit":1000}'
=====================================================================================

🛠 Craft table:
=====================================================================================
python -m prefect deploy flows/chula_extraction/flow_chula_extract_data.py:extract_chula_data \
	--name craft-extraction \
	--pool chula-pool \
	--params '{"table_name":"Craft","output_filename":"Craft.json","limit":1000}'
=====================================================================================

## ▶️ Running a Deployment

After deployment, run it from the UI or CLI:

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
==============================================
export PREFECT_API_URL=http://localhost:4200/api
==============================================

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
============================================================
python -m prefect deployment run 'extract_chula_data/person-extraction'
============================================================

🌐 Or visit Prefect UI in browser:
============================================================
http://localhost:4200/deployments
============================================================

## ⚙️ Parameters Reference

- `table_name` 👉 SQL Server table name to extract (required)  
- `output_filename` 👉 Output file name (default: `{table_name}.json`)  
- `limit` 👉 Number of rows to extract (default: 1000)

## 📂 Output Location

Extracted files are saved to `/app/output/` inside the Docker container,  
which is mounted to `./output/` in your workspace.

Example Windows path: `E:\prefect-demo\output\Person.json`

## 🔄 Updating Flow Code

1. ✏️ Edit files in `E:\prefect-demo\flows\chula_extraction\`  
2. ⚡ Changes take effect immediately (no rebuild needed)  
3. ▶️ Run the deployment – it uses the latest code

## 🧰 Troubleshooting

### 🔍 Check work pool status

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
==============================================
export PREFECT_API_URL=http://localhost:4200/api
==============================================

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
============================================================
python -m prefect work-pool ls
============================================================

### 📋 View deployment details

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
==============================================
export PREFECT_API_URL=http://localhost:4200/api
==============================================

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
============================================================
python -m prefect deployment ls
============================================================

### 🗑 Delete a deployment

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
==============================================
export PREFECT_API_URL=http://localhost:4200/api
==============================================

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
=======================================================================
python -m prefect deployment delete 'extract_chula_data/person-extraction'
=======================================================================

Commit message:

example : ETL cost by eq

how_to_deploy.md, after:

# 🚀 How to Deploy Prefect Flows

## ✅ Prerequisites

- 🐍 Python 3.12 installed on Windows
- 📦 Prefect 3.6.1 installed: `pip install prefect==3.6.1`  
- 🐳 Docker containers running (prefect-server and prefect-worker)

## 🗂 Deploying with `prefect.yaml`

Using the repo's `prefect.yaml` keeps deployment settings (entrypoint, pull steps, work pool, tags, etc.) under version control. The CLI will read this file automatically from the project root.

1. **Point the CLI at your server (per terminal session):**
	```bash
	export PREFECT_API_URL=http://localhost:4200/api
	```
2. **Apply a deployment from the manifest:**
	```bash
	cd /e/prefect-demo
	prefect deploy -n cedar7-cost-by-eq
	```
	- `-n cedar7-cost-by-eq` matches the deployment name defined under `deployments` in `prefect.yaml`.
	- The command runs non-interactively and reuses the pull steps / work pool declared in the file.
3. **Add or modify deployments:** edit `prefect.yaml`, commit the changes, then rerun `prefect deploy -n <name>` (or omit `-n` to deploy all entries).
4. **Kick off a run after deploying:**
	```bash
	prefect deployment run 'cedar7-cost-by-eq/cedar7-cost-by-eq'
	```

Use this flow whenever you tweak flow code or infrastructure settings—no need to retype long CLI options each time.

## ⚡ Quick Start

### ❌ Remove Prefect's default git pull step (one-time per deployment)
- Open Prefect UI → Deployments → click your deployment → **Edit**.
- Under **Pull steps**, delete `prefect.deployments.steps.git_clone`.
- Add `prefect.deployments.steps.set_working_directory` and set `directory=/app`.
- Save. The worker already sees your code via Docker volume mounts, so no git needed.

### 1️⃣ Set Prefect API URL (once per terminal session)
put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
==============================================
export PREFECT_API_URL=http://localhost:4200/api
==============================================

### 2️⃣ Deploy a Flow

Basic deployment (manual trigger only):

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
=====================================================================================
python -m prefect deploy flows/chula_extraction/flow_chula_extract_data.py:extract_chula_data \
	--name person-extraction \
	--pool chula-pool \
	--params '{"table_name":"Person","output_filename":"Person.json","limit":1000}'
=====================================================================================

## 📤 Deployment Options

### 🕹 Manual Trigger (No Schedule)

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
==============================================
export PREFECT_API_URL=http://localhost:4200/api
==============================================

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
=====================================================================================
python -m prefect deploy flows/chula_extraction/flow_chula_extract_data.py:extract_chula_data \
	--name person-extraction \
	--pool chula-pool \
	--params '{"table_name":"Person","output_filename":"Person.json","limit":1000}'
=====================================================================================

### ⏰ With Cron Schedule

Every hour:

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
=====================================================================================
python -m prefect deploy flows/chula_extraction/flow_chula_extract_data.py:extract_chula_data \
	--name person-extraction \
	--pool chula-pool \
	--cron "0 * * * *" \
	--params '{"table_name":"Person","output_filename":"Person.json","limit":1000}'
=====================================================================================

Daily at midnight:

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
=====================================================================================
python -m prefect deploy flows/chula_extraction/flow_chula_extract_data.py:extract_chula_data \
	--name person-extraction \
	--pool chula-pool \
	--cron "0 0 * * *" \
	--params '{"table_name":"Person","output_filename":"Person.json","limit":1000}'
=====================================================================================

### 🔁 With Interval Schedule

Every 3600 seconds (1 hour):

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
=====================================================================================
python -m prefect deploy flows/chula_extraction/flow_chula_extract_data.py:extract_chula_data \
	--name person-extraction \
	--pool chula-pool \
	--interval 3600 \
	--params '{"table_name":"Person","output_filename":"Person.json","limit":1000}'
=====================================================================================

## 📚 Common Tables Deployment Examples

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
==============================================
export PREFECT_API_URL=http://localhost:4200/api
==============================================

👤 Person table:
=====================================================================================
python -m prefect deploy flows/chula_extraction/flow_chula_extract_data.py:extract_chula_data \
	--name person-extraction \
	--pool chula-pool \
	--params '{"table_name":"Person","output_filename":"Person.json","limit":1000}'
=====================================================================================

🏢 Dept table:
=====================================================================================
python -m prefect deploy flows/chula_extraction/flow_chula_extract_data.py:extract_chula_data \
	--name dept-extraction \
	--pool chula-pool \
	--params '{"table_name":"Dept","output_filename":"Dept.json","limit":1000}'
=====================================================================================

🧪 EQ table:
=====================================================================================
python -m prefect deploy flows/chula_extraction/flow_chula_extract_data.py:extract_chula_data \
	--name eq-extraction \
	--pool chula-pool \
	--params '{"table_name":"EQ","output_filename":"EQ.json","limit":1000}'
=====================================================================================

🛠 Craft table:
=====================================================================================
python -m prefect deploy flows/chula_extraction/flow_chula_extract_data.py:extract_chula_data \
	--name craft-extraction \
	--pool chula-pool \
	--params '{"table_name":"Craft","output_filename":"Craft.json","limit":1000}'
=====================================================================================

## ▶️ Running a Deployment

After deployment, run it from the UI or CLI:

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
==============================================
export PREFECT_API_URL=http://localhost:4200/api
==============================================

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
============================================================
python -m prefect deployment run 'extract_chula_data/person-extraction'
============================================================

🌐 Or visit Prefect UI in browser:
============================================================
http://localhost:4200/deployments
============================================================

## ⚙️ Parameters Reference

- `table_name` 👉 SQL Server table name to extract (required)  
- `output_filename` 👉 Output file name (default: `{table_name}.json`)  
- `limit` 👉 Number of rows to extract (default: 1000)

## 📂 Output Location

Extracted files are saved to `/app/output/` inside the Docker container,  
which is mounted to `./output/` in your workspace.

Example Windows path: `E:\prefect-demo\output\Person.json`

## 🔄 Updating Flow Code

1. ✏️ Edit files in `E:\prefect-demo\flows\chula_extraction\`  
2. ⚡ Changes take effect immediately (no rebuild needed)  
3. ▶️ Run the deployment – it uses the latest code

## 🧰 Troubleshooting

### 🔍 Check work pool status

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
==============================================
export PREFECT_API_URL=http://localhost:4200/api
==============================================

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
============================================================
python -m prefect work-pool ls
============================================================

### 📋 View deployment details

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
==============================================
export PREFECT_API_URL=http://localhost:4200/api
==============================================

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
============================================================
python -m prefect deployment ls
============================================================

### 🗑 Delete a deployment

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
==============================================
export PREFECT_API_URL=http://localhost:4200/api
==============================================

put this command into the terminal (Git Bash or CMD)
=======================================================================
python -m prefect deployment delete 'extract_chula_data/person-extraction'
=======================================================================
